---
layout: post
title: Why we should all be using Whatsapp
date: March 23, 2017
---


# Why we should all be using WhatsApp

- Messaging clients are integral to our technology life.
- This is how prevalent messaging is
- All the companies are trying to offer it to get people to engage
- It’s the reason why Apple is so sticky
- What is the best one?

- Alternatives are FB and iMessage
- So many pitfalls

## 1. Search function

The search function should be standard across all your applications: you search for something, and you get a list of all *occurrences* in the document. I remember this being standard ever since I stored my documents on a floppy disk. In WhatsApp, the search function is familiar and complete: I can search “hey” in one person’s entire chat history, and visit each occurrence within that conversation. This is important if we mention a topic on multiple occasions, but need to browse to find the most relevant one. Alternatively, I can also do a global search *all* my chats for one query if I can’t remember which person I mentioned that topic to.

This all seems simple enough, but Apple Messages astoundingly managed to botch a simple function. First, you are limited to a global search, which means you can’t direct your search to just one person’s chat. Second, Apple Messages doesn’t allow you to visit each *instance* of the result, because it only shows you whether the result was positive for each person’s chat. If I search “hey” in Apple Messages, the only results I can get are the most recent instance for each person.

If this is news to you, it might be because at some point in your past, you used the Search function and never used it again because of how incredibly useless this function was.

## 2. Cross platform

This is a big one for me, because I am philosophically against using a proprietary messaging protocol that is completely closed  and (perhaps inadvertently) used to create divisions between the iOS/Android populations.

WhatsApp is not only available on iOS/Android but also on the web and desktop. If I want to type out my chats on a keyboard, I don’t need to open my MacBook (or even own one) to do so. All I need is a browser and an internet connection, and I still get the same safety and privacy with the default end-to-end encryption that Facebook Messenger doesn’t give.

## 3. E2E encryption

Speaking of ...


## 4. Chat backups/Exporting

The downside of E2E encryption is that nothing exists on a server somewhere (that’s what makes it safe). In order for someone to access your messages, they’d have to hack your phone rather than a server somewhere out in the desert.

But this presents a new problem when you want access archives of your messages. The nice feature is that there is an export function


## 5. Data Allowance

Unless you’re on WiFi, all those group texts of videos and photos that your friends are sharing from that concert last night are going to cost you data. Platforms like Apple Messages and Facebook Messenger don’t give you the option to turn off auto-downloading of media files, which means that if you’re driving somewhere and on LTE, you could be using 500 MB just to receive photos and videos that you didn’t even want to receive.

In fact, if I wanted to screw over someone with a small data plan, I’d just send them a ton of blank videos when I know they’re off a WiFi connection. Hello, overage charges.

With WhatsApp, however, you can set auto-downloading media messages to either WiFi or WiFi+Data. If I’m off a WiFi connection, I can choose whether or not I want to see that video at the moment.

6. Forward

5. Mark as unread



8. Starred Messages
9. Exporting
10. Broadcast Lists
